---
layout: default
title: "init"
category: android
istop: "true"
---
>     {{ page.date | date: "%Y-%m-%d," }} {{ page.content | number_of_words | append: "chars"}}
>     {{ page.tags }}

# init

init 进程是kernel启动的最后一步，init完成了用内核态到用户态的转换。

init 重点完成了这几件事  
挂载文件系统  
启动SElinux  
启动属性服务  
启动很多需要开机时启动的守护进程  

init 启动了zygote

----------

## init.rc


1、 Actions, Services

2、 Commands, Options, Triggers and Imports

Actions and Services命名必须唯一  
如果 Action 重名了则其commands续接到先前定义的Action上；  
如果 Service 重名了，则之后的定义会被忽略且有log信息报出。


init进程开始会先加载/init.rc，负责系统的初始化。
`/init.rc` 又`imports /init.${ro.hardware}.rc`

在 `mount_all command` 阶段,  init会加载位于 /{system,vendor,odm}/etc/init/ 目录中的*.rc文件.

The intention of these directories is as follows
   1) /system/etc/init/ is for core system items such as
      SurfaceFlinger, MediaService, and logcatd.
   2) /vendor/etc/init/ is for SoC vendor items such as actions or
      daemons needed for core SoC functionality.
   3) /odm/etc/init/ is for device manufacturer items such as
      actions or daemons needed for motion sensor or other peripheral
      functionality.

在某模块编译时LOCAL_INIT_RC变量指定该可执行文件的.rc文件放在哪个路径下


#### Actions


Actions take the form of:  
```
on <trigger> [&& <trigger>]*  
   <command>
   <command>
   <command>
```

#### Services

```
service <name> <pathname> [ <argument> ]*
   <option>
   <option>
   ...
```

#### Options
Options are modifiers to services.  They affect how and when init
runs the service.

`critical`
  This is a device-critical service. If it exits more than four times in
  four minutes, the device will reboot into recovery mode.

`disabled`
  This service will not automatically start with its class.
  It must be explicitly started by name.

`setenv <name> <value>`
  Set the environment variable `<name> to <value>` in the launched process.

`socket <name> <type> <perm> [ <user> [ <group> [ <seclabel> ] ] ]`
  Create a unix domain socket named` /dev/socket/<name> `and pass
  its fd to the launched process. ` <type> `must be "dgram", "stream" or "seqpacket".
  User and group default to 0.
  'seclabel' is the SELinux security context for the socket.
  It defaults to the service security context, as specified by seclabel or
  computed based on the service executable file security context.

`user <username>`
  Change to username before exec'ing this service.
  Currently defaults to root.  (??? probably should default to nobody)
  As of Android M, processes should use this option even if they
  require linux capabilities.  Previously, to acquire linux
  capabilities, a process would need to run as root, request the
  capabilities, then drop to its desired uid.  There is a new
  mechanism through fs_config that allows device manufacturers to add
  linux capabilities to specific binaries on a file system that should
  be used instead. This mechanism is described on
  http://source.android.com/devices/tech/config/filesystem.html.  When
  using this new mechanism, processes can use the user option to
  select their desired uid without ever running as root.

`group <groupname> [ <groupname> ]*`
  Change to groupname before exec'ing this service.  Additional
  groupnames beyond the (required) first one are used to set the
  supplemental groups of the process (via setgroups()).
  Currently defaults to root.  (??? probably should default to nobody)

`seclabel <seclabel>`
  Change to 'seclabel' before exec'ing this service.
  Primarily for use by services run from the rootfs, e.g. ueventd, adbd.
  Services on the system partition can instead use policy-defined transitions
  based on their file security context.
  If not specified and no transition is defined in policy, defaults to the init context.

`oneshot`
  Do not restart the service when it exits.

`class <name>`
  Specify a class name for the service.  All services in a
  named class may be started or stopped together.  A service
  is in the class "default" if one is not specified via the
  class option.

`onrestart`
  Execute a Command (see below) when service restarts.

`writepid <file...>`
  Write the child's pid to the given files when it forks. Meant for
  cgroup/cpuset usage.


#### Triggers

For example:
'on boot && property:a=b' defines an action that is only executed when
the 'boot' event trigger happens and the property a equals b.

'on property:a=b && property:c=d' defines an action that is executed
at three times,
   1) During initial boot if property a=b and property c=d
   2) Any time that property a transitions to value b, while property
      c already equals d.
   3) Any time that property c transitions to value d, while property
      a already equals b.


#### Commands


`bootchart_init`
   Start bootcharting if configured (see below).
   This is included in the default init.rc.

`chmod <octal-mode> <path>`
   Change file access permissions.

`chown <owner> <group> <path>`
   Change file owner and group.

`class_start <serviceclass>`
   Start all services of the specified class if they are
   not already running.

`class_stop <serviceclass>`
   Stop and disable all services of the specified class if they are
   currently running.

`class_reset <serviceclass>`
   Stop all services of the specified class if they are
   currently running, without disabling them. They can be restarted
   later using class_start.

`copy <src> <dst>`
   Copies a file. Similar to write, but useful for binary/large
   amounts of data.

`domainname <name>`
   Set the domain name.

`enable <servicename>`
   Turns a disabled service into an enabled one as if the service did not
   specify disabled.
   If the service is supposed to be running, it will be started now.
   Typically used when the bootloader sets a variable that indicates a specific
   service should be started when needed. E.g.`on property:ro.boot.myfancyhardware=1`  
        `enable my_fancy_service_for_my_fancy_hardware`

`exec [ <seclabel> [ <user> [ <group> ]* ] ] -- <command> [ <argument> ]*`
   Fork and execute command with the given arguments. The command starts
   after "--" so that an optional security context, user, and supplementary
   groups can be provided. No other commands will be run until this one
   finishes. `<seclabel>` can be a - to denote default.

`export <name> <value>`
   Set the environment variable `<name>` equal to `<value>` in the
   global environment (which will be inherited by all processes
   started after this command is executed)

`hostname <name>`
   Set the host name.

`ifup <interface>`
   Bring the network interface `<interface>` online.

`insmod <path>`
   Install the module at `<path>`

`load_all_props`
   Loads properties from /system, /vendor, et cetera.
   This is included in the default init.rc.

`load_persist_props`
   Loads persistent properties when /data has been decrypted.
   This is included in the default init.rc.

`loglevel <level>`
   Sets the kernel log level to level. Properties are expanded within `<level>`.

`mkdir <path> [mode] [owner] [group]`
   Create a directory at `<path>`, optionally with the given mode, owner, and
   group. If not provided, the directory is created with permissions 755 and
   owned by the root user and root group. If provided, the mode, owner and group
   will be updated if the directory exists already.

`mount_all <fstab> [ <path> ]* [--<option>]`
   Calls fs_mgr_mount_all on the given fs_mgr-format fstab and imports .rc files
   at the specified paths (e.g., on the partitions just mounted) with optional
   options "early" and "late".
   Refer to the section of "Init .rc Files" for detail.

`mount <type> <device> <dir> [ <flag> ]* [<options>]`
   Attempt to mount the named device at the directory `<dir>`
   `<device>` may be of the form mtd@name to specify a mtd block
   device by name.
   `<flag>`s include "ro", "rw", "remount", "noatime", ...
   `<options>` include "barrier=1", "noauto_da_alloc", "discard", ... as
   a comma separated string, eg: barrier=1,noauto_da_alloc

`powerctl`
   Internal implementation detail used to respond to changes to the
   "sys.powerctl" system property, used to implement rebooting.

`restart <service>`
   Like stop, but doesn't disable the service.

`restorecon <path> [ <path> ]*`
   Restore the file named by `<path>` to the security context specified
   in the file_contexts configuration.
   Not required for directories created by the init.rc as these are
   automatically labeled correctly by init.

`restorecon_recursive <path> [ <path> ]*`
   Recursively restore the directory tree named by <path> to the
   security contexts specified in the file_contexts configuration.

`rm <path>`
   Calls unlink(2) on the given path. You might want to
   use "exec -- rm ..." instead (provided the system partition is
   already mounted).

`rmdir <path>`
   Calls rmdir(2) on the given path.

`setprop <name> <value>`
   Set system property `<name>` to `<value`. Properties are expanded
   within `<value>`.

`setrlimit <resource> <cur> <max>`
   Set the rlimit for a resource.

`start <service>`
   Start a service running if it is not already running.

`stop <service>`
   Stop a service from running if it is currently running.

`swapon_all <fstab>`
   Calls fs_mgr_swapon_all on the given fstab file.

`symlink <target> <path>`
   Create a symbolic link at <path> with the value <target>

`sysclktz <mins_west_of_gmt>`
   Set the system clock base (0 if system clock ticks in GMT)

`trigger <event>`
   Trigger an event.  Used to queue an action from another
   action.

`umount <path>`
   Unmount the filesystem mounted at that path.

`verity_load_state`
   Internal implementation detail used to load dm-verity state.

`verity_update_state <mount_point>`
   Internal implementation detail used to update dm-verity state and
   set the partition.`<mount_point>`.verified properties used by adb remount
   because fs_mgr can't set them directly itself.

`wait <path> [ <timeout> ]`
   Poll for the existence of the given file and return when found,
   or the timeout has been reached. If timeout is not specified it
   currently defaults to five seconds.

`write <path> <content>`
   Open the file at `<path>` and write a string to it with write(2).
   If the file does not exist, it will be created. If it does exist,
   it will be truncated. Properties are expanded within `<content>`.


#### Imports

The import keyword is not a command, but rather its own section and is
handled immediately after the .rc file that contains it has finished
being parsed.  It takes the below form:

`import <path>`
   Parse an init config file, extending the current configuration.
   If <path> is a directory, each file in the directory is parsed as
   a config file. It is not recursive, nested directories will
   not be parsed.

There are only two times where the init executable imports .rc files,
   1) When it imports /init.rc during initial boot
   2) When it imports /{system,vendor,odm}/etc/init/ or .rc files at specified
      paths during mount_all

